---
published: false
---
# Why Web Development?
## From a Computer Science Major’s Perspective

Traditional education in computer programing certainly has its merits. Classes dive into both technical skill needed by software engineers, as well as the theory of computer science that gives an in depth look into the workings and direction of the industry. Michelle Kubot ("Digital Marketing Director" at Ambrosia Treatment Center) said that “The issue with formal education is that it is more theory than practical.” The quality of a programer is more so judged by their experience, and language knowledge. Thus, a student often has to look elsewhere to find the skills that companies seek. 
___
## Creative Cooperation
Websites have become an integral part of modern business. While experience with websites is something most companies are looking for, it is not often something that is being taught in a traditional school setting. Companies look for abilities such as web development and other coding experience in other positions, such as graphic design, marketing and management. Companies often have to look for a candidate to specifically manage the website, alongside an employee that can produce the content or design of the website. Kubot majored in journalism; now she has “Managed hundreds of websites with only a formal marketing and business background. Being able to bring together the technical, strategic and creative sides has been invaluable to my success.” Thus, a business would obviously prefer to find one candidate that could complete both sides, handling the responsibility of the content and the creation. Kubot concludes by saying, “In many examples, unnecessary conflict and tension has arose from the designers not understanding technical limitations or developers not seeing the creative vision.  Firms need people that can bring everything together to drive success on the web.”
___
## Getting Ahead
Computer science and software engineering majors are on the rise. Though the demand for programmers itself may be growing, the competition is also growing at an even greater rate. Kubot continued with, “It’s where the job growth is and will be for the foreseeable future. Getting the skills now will put you ahead of the game.  The sooner you start gathering experience, the more advantage you have over other candidates.” The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the job market for web developers will increase by 27% by 2024 (http://www.bls.gov/). Learning web development could improve your standing in the job market, or improve your current responsibilities. Learning these tools now could be invaluable to your success in the industry.


Jordan Kubot
Freshman, Missouri S&T


